# Scorpio - Addon

## Create an addon based on the Scorpio

After you download the [PLoop][] and the [Scorpio][] Lib, We can create the addons based on the Scorpio.

1.  Give your addon a name, I choose **ScorpioTest** as an example, create a folder 
    named ScorpioTest under **World of Warcraft\Interface\Addons**.

2. Create a file **ScorpioTest.toc** under the folder, input some text in it like 
    (you can find more details about it in [TOC_format](http://wowwiki.wikia.com/wiki/TOC_format),
     you should learn it first)

    ``` toc
    ## Interface: 80300
    ## Title: Scorpio Test Addon
    ## Dependencies: Scorpio
    ## DefaultState: Enabled
    ## LoadOnDemand: 0
    ## SavedVariables: ScorpioTest_DB
    ## SavedVariablesPerCharacter: ScorpioTest_DB_Char

    # localization files
    Locale\enUS.lua
    Locale\zhCN.lua

    # main files
    ScorpioTest.lua
    ScorpioTestMdl.lua
    ```

    The **Dependencies** make sure the **Scorpio** Lib will be loaded before the **ScorpioTest** addon,
    We also declared we have two saved variables, one for all, one for each character, we'll see how to
    use them later.

    We also provided two locale file to show the localization.

3. Create a file **ScorpioTest.lua** under the folder too, it's our addon's main file, open it with a 
    notepad or anything for text edit(my favor is sublime text, also you can use VSCode and others).


## Init the main file

Normally to say, you can use the **Scorpio** as a common library, use its api like **Scorpio.Delay** 
directly, but it also provide a special code style that I strongly suggest to use **The declarative 
functional programming style** based on the usage of the addon object.

The first line of the code file should be like :

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest" "1.0.0"
```

Then create the file **ScorpioTestMdl.lua**, and its first line should be like

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest.ModuleA" "1.0.0"
```

So the code pattern of the first line should be

``` lua
Scorpio "AddonName[.ModuleName[.SubModuleName...]]" "[version]"
```

Here are the rules of the **Scorpio Module System** :

* All main code files with ".lua" suffix in an **Scorpio** addon are considered as module files.

* Each module file is a standalone module contains the operational codes.

* A module can have and only have one parent module, a module can have many child modules.

* The root module(the parent module of all others in the addon) are called the addon module.

* The child module can read all global features defined in it's parent module, the addon module 
    can read all global features that defined in the `_G`. 
    
    Those modules would automatically cache 
    the result so it won't search them again and for quick using. 

    so there is no need to use `local print = print` in those files.

* Writing a global variable will only save it in the module itself, so a child-module's global 
    variable won't affect its parent module, also no global variables will be saved to the `_G`. 
    
    So, you don't need to worry about forgetting write down the `local` keyword, and we'll see the
    benifit of the usage of the global functions.

* `Scorpio "ScorpioTest"` means creating an module named **ScorpioTest**, it has no parent module, 
    so it's the addons's root module.

* `Scorpio "ScorpioTest.ModuleA"` means creating a module named **ModuleA**, it's parent module is 
    the **ScorpioTest**, so it can access all global variables defined in the **ScorpioTest**, like
    global function, config tables, const values and etc.

* The last string `"1.0.0"` means a version token. It's combined by any string with a serials of 
    numbers, so you also can write it like `"r 1.0.12.1"`, also empty string can be used here. 
    
    The version string is needed, you can use `Scorpio "ScorpioTest" ""`, that's because the 
    `Scorpio "ScorpioTest"` is the code `Scorpio("ScorpioTest")`, it's used to create and return the
    addon module, then we use `module(version)`, this is another call to change the code environment,
    so after this line, we can use many special code styles and features provided by the Scorpio 
    directly.

* Each lua file should have a different module, if two files use the same module, the version will 
    be used to check, error would be raised if failed. But we still can use the same module for several
    files, just keep using the empty string as the version token like 

    ``` lua
    Scorpio "ScorpioTest" ""
    ```

* Also you can create a module like

    ``` lua
    Scorpio "ScorpioTest.ModuleA.SubModuleA.SubModuleB.SubModuleC" "1.0.0"
    ```

    There is no limit for it.


## Handle the System Event

The wow will notify us about what happened in the game world by system events. Like `UNIT_SPELLCAST_START` 
tell us an unit is casting a spell, it also give us several arguments to tell who cast it and which the 
spell is.

You can find a full list in [Events List](http://wowwiki.wikia.com/wiki/Events_A-Z_(Full_List)).

Although the **Scorpio** module can use **RegisterEvent** API to register and handle the system events, 
the new **Declarative Functional Programming** is recommended. 

Let's use the the `UNIT_SPELLCAST_START` and `UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START` for examples.

We can handle each system events like:

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest" "1.0.0" -- keep this as the first line

__SystemEvent__()
function UNIT_SPELLCAST_START(unit, spell)
    print(unit .. " cast " .. spell)
end

__SystemEvent__()
function UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START(unit, spell)
    print(unit .. " cast " .. spell)
end
```

Since we use the first line changed the code environment of the file, the Scorpio can sense the definition
of global functions, so we can use some decorators before the definition, can apply those decorators on the
function.

The `__SystemEvent__()` is a decorator, but I'd like to call it an attribute(since those not only works on 
the functions). It's created by `__SystemEvent__` attribute class, but normally we only need to use it, you
don't need to know everything about the [PLoop][].

The attributes are used to bind information or do some modification on the target. The `__SystemEvent__` is
used to register the system event to the module with the function as the system event handler. 

Since the code we handle the `UNIT_SPELLCAST_START` and `UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START` is the same, we can 
combine it like

``` lua
__SystemEvent__ "UNIT_SPELLCAST_START" "UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START"
function UNIT_SPELLCAST(unit, spell)
    print(unit .. " cast " .. spell)
end
```

It's the same code 

``` lua
__SystemEvent__("UNIT_SPELLCAST_START")("UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START")
function UNIT_SPELLCAST(unit, spell)
    print(unit .. " cast " .. spell)
end
```

Also we can split the events to several attributes:

``` lua
__SystemEvent__ "UNIT_SPELLCAST_START"
__SystemEvent__ "UNIT_SPELLCAST_CHANNEL_START"
function UNIT_SPELLCAST(unit, spell)
    print(unit .. " cast " .. spell)
end
```


## Handle the Secure Hook

A big part in addon development is modifying the wow's original ui. To do it, we need use **Hook** or 
**Secure Hook**. 

The **Hook** is very simple, just use a new function to replace the original one:

``` lua
local oldmin = math.min
math.min = function(...)
    print("Call math.min", ...)
    return oldmin(...)
end

local m = math.min(1, 2, 3) -- call the new function
```

The **Scorpio** won't cover it, the **Secure Hook** is recommended by the blizzard, it won't replace the
original one, and the hooked handler should be called after the original one is called.

Normall works like :

``` lua
hooksecurefunc(math, "min", function(...)
    print("Call math.min", ...)
end)

local m = math.min(1, 2, 3) -- call the original one
```

Take **ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained** as an example, it's fired when you press enter and the chat frame's 
input edit box is shown:

``` lua
__SecureHook__()
function ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained(self)
    print("Start input text")
end
```

So the module will hook the `ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained` defined in the `_G`, and the module will use 
its `ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained` as the handler. We also can choose another name, so we need to set the 
name in the attribute :

``` lua
__SecureHook__ "ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained"
function Hook_ChatEdit_OnEditFocusGained(self)
    print("Start input text")
end
```

Also we can provide the owner of the target function:

``` lua
__SecureHook__(math, "min")
function Hook_math_min(...)
    print("Call the math.min", ...)
end
```

If we try to hook `AuctionFrameTab_OnClick`, since it's defined in addon **Blizzard_AuctionUI**, we can't 
hook it before the addon is loaded, but it can be simply done with a new attribute :

``` lua
__AddonSecureHook__ "Blizzard_AuctionUI"
function AuctionFrameTab_OnClick(self, button, down, index)
    print("Click " .. self:GetName() .. " Auction tab")
end
```

Or

``` lua
__AddonSecureHook__ ("Blizzard_AuctionUI", "AuctionFrameTab_OnClick")
function Hook_AuctionFrameTab_OnClick(self, button, down, index)
    print("Click " .. self:GetName() .. " Auction tab")
end
```

It would make the system secure hook the target function until the **Blizzard_AuctionUI** is loaded. 
You can open the auction frame and toggle the tabpage to see the result.

To modify the original code, you need be familiar with them first, you may find the sources in 
[BlizzardInterfaceCode](https://github.com/tomrus88/BlizzardInterfaceCode). You can use `/fstack` command to 
know which frame you want modify and then search them in the source.


## Define Slash Commands

The slash commands is a simple way to config the addon, trigger the operations, or open config menus.

Take some commands like

```
/cmd
/cmd enable
/cmd log 3
```

Normally the slash commands match the pattern like

```
/cmd [option] [info]
```

Here is some examples

``` lua
-- enable the module
-- /sct enable         
-- /scptest enable
__SlashCmd__ "scptest" "enable"
__SlashCmd__ "sct" "enable"
function EnableModule(info)
    -- _Enabled is a property of the module, it only recevei the boolean value,
    -- it can be used to enable/disable the module, if the module is disabled,
    -- all system event handlers, secure hook handlers are disabled so won't be called
    _Enabled = true
end

-- disable the module
-- /sct disable
-- /scptest disable
__SlashCmd__ "scptest" "disable"
__SlashCmd__ "sct" "disable"
function DisableModule(info)
    _Enabled = false
end
```

The two slash commands is follow the `/cmd option` pattern, the command and option are all case ignored, 
each hander match two commands `/sct` and `/scptest`.

For the pattern `/cmd`, normally used to show the command list like

``` lua
__SlashCmd__ "scptest"
__SlashCmd__ "sct"
function Help()
    print("/sct(scptest) enable   -- enable the addon")
    print("/sct(scptest) disable  -- disable the addon")
end
```

But you also can define the slash commands follow the `/cmd option[ info]` patterns with a decription, 
the system will provide a default slash commdn handler for `/cmd` used to generate the command list :

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest" ""

__SlashCmd__ "sct" "enable" "- enable the module"
function enableModule()
end

__SlashCmd__ "sct" "disable" "- disable the module"
function disableModule()
end
```

So when you enter the `/sct` command, the list will be displayed :

```
--======================--
/sct enable - enable the module
/sct disable - disable the module
--======================--
```

If you need use localization for the description, you can do it like :

``` lua
__SlashCmd__("sct", "enable", L["- enable the module"])
function enableModule()
end
```


## The Property of the Addon Module 

We have see the usage of the `_Enabled` property, all addon modules has provided several properties, it
works like how we use the `_G`.

Here is the list of the properties:

Name       |ReadOnly    |Description
-----------|------------|-----------
_M         |true        |The module itself.
_Name      |true        |The name of the module.
_Parent    |true        |The parent module of the module.
_Version   |true        |The module's version.
_Enabled   |false       |Whether the module is enabled.
_Disabled  |true        |whether the module is disabled(the sub-module would be disabled if its parent module is disabled)
_Addon     |true        |The root module of the addon
_Locale    |true        |The localization manager

So it works like :

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest.ModuleA" "1.0.0"

-- Display the parent module's name
print(_Parent._Name)     -- ScorpioTest

print(_Parent == _Addon) -- true

-- The module also provided several methods like other addon libs
-- but it's not recommended in the Scorpio
_M:RegisterEvent("PLAYER_LOGIN", function()
    print("Player logined")
end)
```


## The Module Event

Commonly, addons should handle several special events, this is also the life-cycle of the addons:

1. The Addon itself and its saved variables is loaded, so we can init the addon's states based on the saved variables.

2. The player is logined, so the user's data can be used like the class of the character.

3. The player changed the specialization, so we may change the addon's states based on the player's specialization.

4. The player changed the war mode(PVP or PVE), also we may change the addon's states.

5. The addon or module is enabled so it can handle the system events, secure hooks.

6. The addon or module is disabled so its handlers are disabled, won't be triggered.

7. The player log out, the game session will be ended, so we have the last time to save variables.


The addon module provided several module events to handle those events, we only need to create function with
the exact name, the function will receive the module as first arguments:

Event                           |Description
--------------------------------|--------------------------------
OnLoad(self)                    |Fired when the addon is loaded, the sub-module's OnLoad will be fired after it's parent.
OnSpecChanged(self, spec)       |Fired when the player changed specialization
OnWarModeChanged(self, mode)    |Fired when the player changed the war mode, 1 - PVE, 2 - PVP
OnEnable(self)                  |Fired when the module is enabled and the player login into the game, or the module is re-enabled.
OnDisable(self)                 |Fired when the module is disabled.
OnQuit(self)                    |Fired when the player log out.

Here is an example :

* ScorpioTest.lua

    ``` lua
    Scorpio "ScorpioTest" "1.0.0"

    function OnLoad(self)
        -- SavedVariables Manager, explained later
        _SVDB = SVManager("ScorpioTest_DB", "ScorpioTest_DB_Char")

        _SVDB:SetDefault{ Enable = true }

        if _SVDB.Char.LastPlayed then
            print("The character is last played at " .. _SVDB.Char.LastPlayed)
        end

        _Enabled = _SVDB.Enable
    end

    function OnEnable(self)
        _SVDB.Enable = true
    end

    function OnDisable(self)
        _SVDB.Enable = false
    end

    function OnQuit(self)
        -- Save the last played time for the character
        _SVDB.Char.LastPlayed = date("%c")
    end

    -- The slash command to enable/disable
    __SlashCmd__ "sct" "enable"
    function EnableModule()
        _Enabled = true
    end

    __SlashCmd__ "sct" "disable"
    function DisableModule()
        _Enabled = false
    end
    ```

* ScorpioTestMdl.lua

    ``` lua
    Scorpio "ScorpioTest.ModuleA" "1.0.0"

    -- The sub modules can have their own handlers for those module events
    function OnLoad(self)
        _SVDB.Char:SetDefault{ ModuleA = { Key = 1 } }
    end

    function OnEnable(self)
        print("The sub module is enabled")
    end

    function OnDisable(self)
        print("The sub module is disabled")
    end
    ```

All addon modules have their own system event handlers, secure hook handlers and module event handlers. The 
child module can access its the  global variables in its parent module, and the parent can enable/disable their children
with themselves.


## Saved Variables of the Addon

The **Saved Variables** are datas saved between the game sessions, they are used to save the addons' configuration. 

First we should decalre the saved variable name in the `toc` file, there are two types:

1. SavedVariables - The saved variables for all the characters in the same server.

2. SavedVariablesPerCharacter - The saved variables for the character only.

When the player log out the game, the WOW will try to find the Lua tables in the `_G` with the name given by the `toc`,
if existed, the WOW will serialize the table and saved the result into the disk files.

When the player log in the game, the WOW will check if those files existed on the disk, and load the file after the addon
loaded, and then send the `ADDON_LOADED` system event to notify the author, for [Scorpio][], we can use the `OnLoad` module
event to handle it.

In the `ScorpioTest.toc`, we declare two saved variable name: `ScorpioTest_DB` for account, `ScorpioTest_DB_Char` for character.

The authors can handle the saved variables themselves, but to simple the job, the [Scorpio][] also provide **SVManager**.

We can define an object within the `OnLoad` module event, the object should be global and defined in the root module, so 
we can use it in all module files:

``` lua
function OnLoad(self)
    _SVDB = SVManager("ScorpioTest_DB", "ScorpioTest_DB_Char")
end
```

The **SVManager** can accept two arguments, the first is the account saved variable's name, it's **required**, the next is 
the character saved variable's name, it's **optional**, when the addon has no saved variables for character, the 
**SVMananger** would use the account saved variable to handle the character's, so you don't need to care the details of it.

After the _SVDB is defined, we can use it to access or write datas like

* Account Data :
    * _SVDB.Key = value
    * value = _SVDB.Key

* Character Data :
    * _SVDB.Char.Key = value
    * value = _SVDB.Char.Key

* Character-Specialization Data(The system would handle the specialization's changing) :
    * For current specialization
        * _SVDB.Char.Spec.Key = value
        * value = _SVDB.Char.Spec.Key
    * For special specialization
        * _SVDB.Char.Specs[spec].Key = value
        * value = _SVDB.Char.Specs[spec].Key

* Character-Specialization-WarMode Data:
    * For current warmode
        * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode.Key = value
        * value = _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode.Key
    * For special warmode
        * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode[mode].Key = value
        * value = _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode[mode].Key

Besides the access, the other part for saved variable is given them default settings, since the real job is combine 
the saved variable with the default settings, so you can do it in multi-times and any time.

* Account Default :
    * _SVDB:SetDefault{ key1 = value1, key2 = value2 }
    * _SVDB:SetDefault( key, value )

* Character Default :
    * _SVDB.Char:SetDefault{ key1 = value1, key2 = value2 }
    * _SVDB.Char:SetDefault( key, value )

* Character-Specialization Default :
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec:SetDefault{ key1 = value1, key2 = value2 }
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec:SetDefault( key, value )

* Character-Specialization-WarMode Default:
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode:SetDefault{ key1 = value1, key2 = value2 }
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode:SetDefault( key, value )

The values can also be tables, and only table, boolean, number, string value will be accepted. If the value is a function, 
it'll be used as a value factory.

If you decided reset the saved variables, you also can do it like :

* Account Reset :
    * _SVDB:Reset() -- Reset the account data with default, won't affect character data.

* Character Reset :
    * _SVDB.Char:Reset() -- Reset the character data with default, won't affect specialization data.

* Character-Specialization Reset :
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec:Reset() -- Reset current specialization data with default.
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec:ResetAll() -- Reset all specialization data with default.

* Character-Specialization-WarMode Reset :
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode:Reset() -- Reset current warmode data with default.
    * _SVDB.Char.Spec.WarMode:ResetAll() -- Reset all warmode data with default.


## The Localization

The property `_Locale` provided the features to control the localization.

There are two localization files defined in the **ScorpioTest.toc**.

``` toc
# localization files
Locale\enUS.lua
Locale\zhCN.lua
```

Since the localization system is very simple, let's see it in examples.

* Locale\enUS.lua

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest.Localization.enUS" "1.0.0"

-- _Locale(language, asDefault)
-- language -- The language token you can get from GetLocale() API
-- asDefault -- Whether the language is the default, normally only true with "enUS"
local L = _Locale("enUS", true)

-- If the language don't match the client and is not the default language, L will be nil.
if not L then return end

L["A test message"] = true
L[1] = "Another test message"
```

* Locale\zhCN.lua

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest.Localization.zhCN" "1.0.0"

local L = _Locale("zhCN")

if not L then return end

L["A test message"] = "一条测试用消息"
L[1] = "另一条测试用消息"
```

Here is the usage in `ScorpioTest.lua`:

``` lua
Scorpio "ScorpioTest" "1.0.0"

-- You can assign it to a new variable for easy using
L = _Locale

function OnLoad(self)
    print(_Locale["A test message"])
    print(_Locale[1])

    print(L["A test message"])
end
```


[PLoop]: https://github.com/kurapica/PLoop  "PLoop Lib"
[Scorpio]: https://github.com/kurapica/Scorpio  "Scorpio Lib"